Our modern world is filled with data and
that data almost always guides us
in making important decisions.
When working with large amounts of data,
we need to know how to store it, so
it's organized and
quick to access and process.
The solution to this is through databases,
and
that's what we're exploring in this video!
To start us off,
we can define a database as an organized
collection of information or data.
Databases are often
compared to spreadsheets.
Some of you may have used Google Sheets or
another common spreadsheet
program in the past.
While these programs are convenient
ways to store data, spreadsheets
are often designed for a single user or
a small team to store less data.
In contrast, databases can be accessed
by multiple people simultaneously and
can store massive amounts of data.
Databases can also perform complex
tasks while accessing data.
As a security analyst,
you'll often need to access databases
containing useful information.
For example, these could be databases
containing information on login attempts,
software and updates, or
machines and their owners.
Now that we know how important
databases are for us,
let's talk about how they're organized and
how we can interact with them.
Using databases allow us to store large
amounts of data while keeping it quick and
easy to access.
There are lots of different ways we can
structure a database, but in this course,
we'll be working with
relational databases.
A relational database is a structured
database containing tables that
are related to each other.
Let's learn more about what
makes a relational database.
We'll start by examining
an individual table in
a larger database of
organizational information.
Each table contains fields of information.
For example, in this table on employees,
these would include fields like
employee_id, device_id, and username.
These are the columns of the tables.
In addition,
tables contain rows also called records.
Rows are filled with specific data
related to the columns in the table.
For example, our first row is a record for
an employee whose id is 1,000 and
who works in the marketing department.
Relational databases often
have multiple tables.
Consider an example where we have two
tables from a larger database, one with
employees of the company and another
with machines given to those employees.
We can connect two tables if
they share a common column.
In this example,
we establish a relationship between
them with a common employee_id column.
The columns that relate two tables
to each other are called keys.
There are two types of keys.
The first is called a primary key.
The primary key refers to a column
where every row has a unique entry.
The primary key must not have any
duplicate values, or any null or
empty values.
The primary key allows us to uniquely
identify every row in our table.
For the table of employees,
employee_id is a primary key.
Every employee_id is unique and there
are no employee_ids that are duplicate or
empty.
The second type of key is a foreign key.
The foreign key is a column in a table
that is a primary key in another table.
Foreign keys, unlike primary keys,
can have empty values and duplicates.
The foreign key allows us to
connect two tables together.
In our example, we can look at the
employee_id column in the machines table.
We previously identified this as
a primary key in the employees table, so
we can use this to connect every machine
to their corresponding employee.
It's also important to know that a table
can only have one primary key, but
multiple foreign keys.
With this information, we're ready
to move on to the basics of SQL,
the language that lets
us work with databases.
Throughout this section,
we'll gain hands-on experience working
with the concepts we just covered!